---
layout: post
title: Hello World!
---

I am going to start a blog as suggested by the lesson plan over at <a href='https://www.gotealeaf.com'>gotealeaf</a>. My blog will mostly be about my journey as a Rails developer, the steps I'm taking, the things I'm learning, and the struggles that I'm facing. With the purpose of this blog declared, I'll move on to what I have been doing this past week.

It has been exactly 1 week already since I have started the online course on Ruby on Rails over at www.gotealeaf.com, and what can I say, I am thoroughly enjoying the lessons so far. I am currently on the first course, finishing up lesson 3 by creating this blog. Only 1 more lesson until I will be moving onto the 2nd course.

Before starting the course at gotealeaf, I have a few experience/background in programming. I took a few basic programming courses when I was in college. I have created an Android application for my senior design project and an image filtering Android application for my image processing class. I've taken online classes over at Coursea on Python. I've done some tutorials on Ruby, html, and css over at Code Academy. So, as you can see, I have taken various form of learning and am fairly familiar with basic concepts of programming.

Lesson 1 and 2 is pretty much a review for me on basic ruby syntax, convention, and OOP. Although it was like a review, I still was able to learn alot. Things that I sort of understood, I had a better grasp on it now. Like what the website has been telling its student, programming is like circular learning. You may not understand it after learning and doing it once or twice, but many times afterward. I think it is this time around that I "get it".

Lesson 3 was where it got alot more exciting as we start to develop our applications through the web. We used Sinatra, a DSL, to quickly create our Blackjack game web application. I am starting to become familiar with how HTTP work, including how it handles request and response. There are 2 major request method and that is GET and POST. Everytime you click on a link or type something in the URL, you're issuing a get request. This means that your browser sends a request to the address that you have entered to retrieve some sort of resource, such as an html for your browser to render for you to see. As for post requests, that's when the website want to send or submit some sort of data over to the server. HTTP is stateless. This means that each request/response is independent of each other. So how will our blackjack application remember the player's name, the player's hand, the dealer's hand and such each time we send a request or response? How come each time you navigate in facebook, it "remembers" you? Well, the answer to this is session and cookie. A cookie is some data that is sent from the server to the client. The browser saves this cookie, which contains the session information. So the next time you issue a get or post request, the client also sends this cookie so that the server can compare it to the session data to verify the current session. The same concept is applied to our blackjack application. The player name and hand is saved inside the session variable(session[:player_name]), which will be passed to the server every request. This is probably the most important concept that I got from this assignment. The game I created can be found <a href='https://young-anchorage-8578.herokuapp.com/'>here</a>.

This post is quite long since I had to give an introduction and had a week worth of lesson I wanted to talk about. My other posts will probably be alot shorter since I plan on giving frequent updates. As for this website, I plan on making it look prettier, although that's something I am terrible at and not looking forward to. Front end development, no thank you. I plan on sticking to the back end stuff. Maybe one day when I'm bored or need to brush up my css skills, this blog will look better.